Keyframe Selection: Rework and add new selection methods (#1343)
alicevision/AliceVision: src/aliceVision/keyframe/README.md

Two methods are currently supported:
- a **regular** selection method, which selects keyframes regularly across the input video / sequence according to a set of parameters;
- a **smart** selection method, which analyses the sharpness and motion of all the frames to select those which are deemed the most relevant (a frame is considered relevant if it contains significant motion in comparison to the last selected keyframe while being as sharp as possible).

The selected keyframes can be written as JPG, PNG or EXR images, and the storage data type can be specified when the EXR file extension is selected.

The keyframe selection module supports the following inputs:
- a path to a video file (e.g. "/path/to/video.mp4")
- a path to a folder containing images (e.g. "/path/to/folder/")
- a path to a folder containing images with a regular expression (e.g. "/path/to/folder/*.exr")

Camera rigs are also supported.

## Regular selection method

The regular selection samples frames regularly over time with respect to some user-provided constraints:
- `minFrameStep`: the minimum number of frames between two selected keyframes;

> - `maxFrameStep`: the maximum number of frames between two selected keyframes;

Reviewer: not clear to me what the role of the two parameters is: if it is a regular sampling of the frames (e.g. 1 frame every 5) why do we need 2 parameters? Or there is still a sharpness score influencing the choice of the frame? Like take  the sharpest frame that is at least `minFrameStep` far from the previous and at most `maxFrameStep` far from the previous one. Is it like this?

Author: There is no influence of the sharpness or the optical flow in the regular method, it really is just a regular sampling that can be modulated. 
`maxFrameStep` is mostly useful when you want to combine a relatively strict sampling with a maximum number of output frames. It is basically here to take precedence over `maxNbOutFrames`.

The expected behaviour for the regular selection depending on the set parameters can be summed up as follows:

- If only `minFrameStep` is set, the whole sequence will be sampled and a keyframe will be selected every `minFrameStep`. E.g: your sequence has 2000 frames, `minFrameStep = 100`, you will get 21 keyframes: with exactly 100 frames between them.

- If `minFrameStep` and `maxNbOutFrames` are set, you will never have less than `minFrameStep` between your keyframes, but you might have more for the whole sequence to be sampled while respecting `maxNbOutFrames`. E.g: your sequence has 2000 frames, `minFrameStep = 100` and `maxNbOutFrames = 10`: you will get 10 keyframes with 222 frames between them, so both `maxNbOutFrames` and `minFrameStep` are respected. If your sequence has 500 frames and `minFrameStep = 100` / `maxNbOutFrames = 10`, you will get 6 keyframes with 100 frames between them. No matter the value of the parameters, the entire sequence will be sampled.

- If `minFrameStep` and `maxFrameStep` are both set but `maxNbOutFrames` isn't, then the step between two keyframes will be exactly between `minFrameStep` and `maxFrameStep`. If `minFrameStep = 100` and `maxFrameStep = 200` without other constraints, it is equivalent to setting `minFrameStep = 150` (so, not the most useful use-case).

- If `minFrameStep`, `maxFrameStep` and `maxNbOutFrames` are all set, then `maxFrameStep` prevents the step between two frames from increasing too much to respect `maxNbOutFrames`. If we take again the example of the sequence with 2000 frames, if we have `minFrameStep = 100`, `maxFrameStep = 150` and `maxNbOutFrames = 10`, then we will get 10 keyframes with 150 frames between each, and the sampling will stop before reaching the end of the sequence so that all the constraints are respected. In the same example, if `maxFrameStep = 300`, then we will end up with 10 keyframes with 222 frames between them, and the whole sequence will be sampled.
`maxFrameStep` **ensures** that there will not be way more frames between two keyframes that we might want. 

I hope this is clear enough (and if you have any suggestion to make that clearer in the README, please let me know)!

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation! :+1: 
Ok, it's not that trivial either then :-)

I think most of the users would be interested in the two basic settings:
1. taking one frame every `minFrameStep` all along the video
2. taking `maxNbOutFrames` equally spaced along the video.

Then all the others are more fine-tuning settings for advanced needs.
So at least in the documentation, we can highlight those two primary cases and then make a sub-section (`Advanced sampling`) where we explain all the other combinations and possibilities to tune the sampling further.
And since you already took the time to kindly write it you can re-use what you write with the examples because it is much more clear.

What do you think?

Author: Sounds good to me! I updated the `README.md` accordingly with these clarifications and examples.
Thanks for the feedback!

- `maxNbOutFrames`: the maximum number of selected keyframes.

### Frame scoring

For both the sharpness and motion scores, the evaluated frame is converted to a grayscale OpenCV matrix that may be rescaled
Scores are computed on grayscale images, which may have been rescaled using the `rescaledWidth` parameter.

#### Sharpness score

The Laplacian of the input frame is first computed, followed by the integral image of the Laplacian. A sliding window of size `sharpnessWindowSize` is used to compute the standard deviation of the averaged Laplacian locally. The final sharpness score will be the highest standard deviation found.

The image is evaluated with a sliding window instead of as a whole to prevent giving a bad score (low standard deviation) to a frame that contains a sharp element but is overall blurry.

#### Motion score

The dense optical flow of a frame is computed. The frame is then divided into cells of `flowCellSize` pixels in which the motion vectors are averaged to obtain a displacement value (in pixels) within that cell. Once all the displacement values have been computed, the median value of these displacement values is used as the motion score.

### Selection

> Once both the sharpness and motion scores have been computed, subsequences are identified based on the motion accumulation across frames. The motion accumulation threshold is set with `pxDisplacement` which represents, in percent, the amount of pixels that need to have moved since the last keyframe for the motion to be significant. As the motion scores represent a displacement value for each frame, summing them over time until the accumulation reaches the threshold allows to divide the input video / sequence into subsequences that all contain significant motion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once both the sharpness and motion scores have been computed, subsequences are identified based on the motion accumulation across frames. The motion accumulation threshold is set with `pxDisplacement` which represents, in per cent, the number of pixels that need to have moved since the last keyframe for the motion to be significant. As the motion scores represent a displacement value for each frame, summing them over time until the accumulation reaches the threshold allows to divide the input video / sequence into subsequences that all contain significant motion.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

> Within each subsequence, a single frame is to be selected as a keyframe. Before processing to the selection itself, the number of identified subsequences is checked to ensure that the minimum and maximum number of requested output keyframes are respected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within each subsequence, a single frame is to be selected as a keyframe. Before processing the selection itself, the number of identified subsequences is checked to ensure that the minimum and maximum number of requested output keyframes are respected.
```

Author: Oops, I actually meant "proceeding to", thanks for catching that!
